Hadoop is an open-source framework that allows to store and process big data
in
a distributed environment across clusters of computers using simple
programming models. It is designed to scale up from single servers to
thousands
of machines, each offering local computation and storage.
This brief tutorial provides a quick introduction to Big Data, MapReduce
algorithm, and Hadoop Distributed File System

This tutorial has been prepared for professionals aspiring to learn the basics
of
Big Data Analytics using Hadoop Framework and become a Hadoop Developer.
Software Professionals, Analytics Professionals, and ETL developers are the
key
beneficiaries of this course.

All the content and graphics published in this e-book are the property of
Tutorials Point (I) Pvt. Ltd. The user of this e-book is prohibited to reuse,
retain,
copy, distribute or republish any contents or a part of contents of this
e-book in
any manner without written consent of the publisher.
We strive to update the contents of our website and tutorials as timely and as
precisely as possible, however, the contents may contain inaccuracies or
errors.
Tutorials Point (I) Pvt. Ltd. provides no guarantee regarding the accuracy,
timeliness or completeness of our website or its contents including this
tutorial.
If you discover any errors on our website or in this tutorial, please notify
us at 

Due to the advent of new technologies, devices, and communication means like
social networking sites, the amount of data produced by mankind is growing
rapidly every year. The amount of data produced by us from the beginning of
time till 2003 was 5 billion gigabytes. If you pile up the data in the form of
disks
it may fill an entire football field. The same amount was created in every two
days in 2011, and in every ten minutes in 2013. This rate is still growing
enormously. Though all this information produced is meaningful and can be
useful when processed, it is being neglected. 

Big Data is a collection of large datasets that cannot be processed using
traditional computing techniques. It is not a single technique or a tool,
rather it
involves many areas of business and technology.

